---
title: "WHERE TO START??"
date: 2023-03-10
---
Bioinformatics is a field where we learn how we can implement coding into biology. So, now what do we do? How do we learn bioinformatics?
Before answering this question let us first understand 3 things:
1. The why?
2. The what?
3. The where?

So, lets understand why do you need to learn. Is it because you are interested in the course, or maybe you want to learn it for your thesis, or maybe just because it is in the trend? 
Further you can understand what you need to learn based on what you already know. Are you from a life science background and don't know coding? Well you could start with learning python and r programming languages first. There are various platforms where you can study this, but I prefer https://www.w3schools.com/python. This is how I have learnt python and r programming. It has quite the learning environment and helps learn at your own pace.
Now, what if you are good with coding but not biology? Lets say you will have to learn the basics of whichever topic you need, such as immunology, molecular biology, genetics and so on. You can do so at free of cost in youtube. My go to for clearing concepts of biology id Shomu's biology. I think he has covered every concept possible in biology in a very understandable way.
So, now that you have cleared what you need to study, you can choose a course in an online or offline platform or you could just go the long way and learn these lessons using free platforms as mentioned above and go for it.
Hope you have clarified your mind on what you need to learn if you choose bioinformatics.
Thank you and see you next week!!!
